everything great about baby driver has
been sponsored by Squarespace
need a new website domain or online
store Squarespace is the place to make
it happen this opening scenes in
masterpiece Thank You Edgar right I
could probably talk about it for half an
hour but here at the cliffnotes Serb
highlights that make it all the win the
first two shots isolate the most
important elements of this film a car
and music we get a ton of exposition
done purely through the visuals the
entire scene is perfectly timed to
bell-bottoms played over top every door
slam in tempo every beat is a cut to a
character being introduced and just by
the coloring of babies black and white
jacket we're told that he doesn't really
fit in with the black trenchcoat crew
even if he is caught between worlds and
then baby breaks his stoic facade and
lets us know he's just a kid in love
with music and much like James Gunn did
with baby Groot in guardians of the
galaxy to Edgar Wright allows the more
interesting action the bank-robbery to
go on in the background while we stay
with our hero hey just when you think
baby might be a little freaked out by
the crime you realize he's just waiting
for more words lip sync at this point
the story's almost completely
compartmentalized the crime side of his
life and fun fact Edgar Wright has
wanted to make this movie for a long
time because he always envisioned a car
chase foot to this song haha
Rick's besties Shane pointing forward
and baby taking off backward might be my
favorite part of this entire film and
keen eyed viewers wouldn't have been
surprised since we see baby put the car
in reverse plus the copters drove the
other direction and then Edgar Wright
surpassed a bunch of modern driving
films with this one practically shot
drifted about three seconds
honoring all the films that inspired
this film also just yep every single
sound effect is on beat in time light
change car crash gear shift
cuts are quick but not too quick we
spend just as much time inside the car
is out and since they were all actually
in the car Walt's driving at high speeds
it feels completely real and we learned
really quickly that baby isn't just a
good driver
he's intentionally hit spike strips with
the sidewall of your tire good indeed
he's car shell game good you gosh darn
right it is
you just sat through six minutes of a
film with no spoken words other than
song lyrics and passenger gasps and you
know all you need to know just the up
angle shot of the building would be
enough of an epic title card but there's
also the hint of a double yellow line
like the road stretch out before baby
also shame on you for thinking this was
house of pain like probably 90% of
everyone everywhere including me shame
on us and not to break up this awesome
song but this second sequence is also a
masterpiece in fact for me it actually
supersedes the car chase Edgar Wright is
always a win this scene alone is reason
enough this one long tracking Steadicam
take is almost three minutes long as
baby walks along the street not one full
frame goes by without words from the
song being written and graffiti on
buildings as sticker stuck around carved
into trees or painted on the sidewalk
every sound effect including car horns
ATM beeps and motorcycle revs are all in
time and a part of the song baby even
act some sections out like sliding and
scuffling he even stalls his drink order
so he can sing along and stay in time
then Edgar slyly introduces the main
love interest Deborah marching along to
Harlem shuffle in her yellow skirt and
we see baby's heart turned from black to
red even on the way back graffiti has
been added to go along with the song
lyrics and if you weren't mesmerized by
all that there's also a story being told
babies in turn coffee go for status is
being solidified and we see again how
happy-go-lucky is when he's not with a
crew and this might be a stretch but
things go pretty smoothly on his walk to
get coffee but once he sees Deborah and
starts back towards doc and crime things
go sour he sees a cop gets the other bio
fanatic and almost gets hit by a bike
and then a car what are we like ten
minutes in here that has to be a record
are you a mute
no misty for God's sake his car keep his
white shirt clean while the rest of us
we roll in the dirt these unflappability
if you don't see me again it's because
I'm dead well that settles that but he
does live on his peat castiglione until
that fateful sledgehammer field day Oh
Jon Bernthal is the man and Netflix as
the Punisher is amazing and no none of
that is a spoiler stop cursing at me in
the comments I'm still sick coming some
slack these care movements might seem
totally unnecessary and just flourish
but they actually sell the musical
stylizing perfectly also baby is now
wearing just his white undershirt he's
not in conflict over taking care of his
foster dad and if you happen to question
how they got that picture who would but
just in case I'd go right through this
camera flash into the chase scene when
he runs the red light Jim help I mean
John Krasinski is always a winner who's
cautiously excited for a quiet place our
eyes are immediately drawn to the same
tape that baby's eyes are drawn to every
time he opens that case they call I go
unless buddy tells you otherwise
chemistry between these two over here is
Eddy no nose formerly Eddy of the nose
well what happened don't ask me that
that's him no nose no no page one better
than no thumbs
am i right yeah good for you flea I'm
the one got the mental problems in the
crew that checks out he's got tinnitus
he know what he had an accident when he
was a kid he still got a hum in the drum
so not to get into a whole thing like I
just did with my wife but apparently in
the medical field where she's a PA it's
tinnitus it hurts my mouth so I won't
keep saying it but I just wanted it to
go right to know that the way he
pronounces it is apparently correct even
in the States more importantly is that
throughout the film when there isn't any
music and just silence you can often
hear the ringing that someone's
suffering from archers favorite injury
to complain about here is constantly I
can attest wear earplugs when using
chainsaws children but even the score
plays into it with the high strings
right in the opening scene solidifying
baby is the main character in the one we
should be sympathetic towards that's my
baby
give me only Jamie Foxx could say
something so crass and still get a
chuckle is mom all oh no the killer dual
from Halloween Oh Jason no well Mike
Myers was in so I married an axe
murderer
Oh Michael Myers was Warrenton when is
Jason liked machetes it's just a joke
second hint that basses betcha
hey yeah just got his name
yeah maybe no more cops but Nene doesn't
say anything about Marines also Thank
You Edgar Wright for exposing my huge
gap in punk music with the damn merciful
incapacitation through skilled j-turn so
that's why my wife hates driving next to
big trucks same coffee run song
performed by a different band gets you
different feelings one of my favorite
transitions in this film a simple match
cut just not so simple to execute
practically fun slow-motion shot where
Ansel is actually singing with a faster
version of the song so that it's in time
when the footage of him is slowed down
tea bricks been there buddy
we've all got gaps apparently it's not
deadmau5 and it's not called MMA or care
dollar sign huh all right I made last
one up but the point is foster kid who
probably didn't finish elementary school
is going to have some gaps in knowledge
you're in a pink glittery mood
I am flirting
whatever the significance I have some
theories I'll get into later this shot
of only primary colors and the dryers is
super pleasing to my brain there's a
finest one-and-done
of all the wines a bath and tap so most
everyone caught this stolen mind the
first time through but even I missed one
of them listen to them all first then
I'll explain what they're important for
you baby is a sampler as in he takes
audio from other sources and
incorporates it into his life just like
his little mixes and ironically we're
given all the original songs that have
been sampled into more popular
well-known songs I think my brain might
melt when I'm done with this movie and
just like a kid in love he goes on to
immediately listen to the song she
talked about no fielding is always a
winner so is everyone else when the
Mighty Boosh but they don't technically
feature in the film and this music video
for me I was Edgar Wright's first stab
at his opening - baby driver I said we
were straight but did you think we were
done but that was it he was careful
about his choice of words one more job
and I'm done
one more job and we're straight and
you're all straight baby that's it sure
is you're all paid up in your go
catfish dipped in gold is that a thing
is that a thing people want should
should I want that love and important
scene where Deborah tells baby me and
she means it
she's in for the long haul hopefulness
just say do it she'll give you the big
bill sirs chips off the old block
don't you mean chip off the old doc he
is but not in the way you want him to I
mean literally he's using the stairs
even though doc called the elevator for
him this does not sound like jet
airliner however I will say they added a
whole different tone and emotion to the
Steve Miller Band intro songs and the
framing of each character near door bird
on the other side of this dark room like
a wall of darkness between them which
there totally is does it exact same
thing Barbra Streisand don't do gonna
think about Barbra Streisand Barbra
Streisand lessons Jew ladies listen to
Queen Queen Streisand that Queen yeah
you ain't got nothing on Freddie Mercury
he bought it a little later I had
nothing to do with heist
did he just admit to killing that guy by
pulling his tattoo trigger
you should know by now it's not gonna be
Dre and Snoop you would kill birds silly
the setup of the ultimate baddie has
done so well in the preceding scene were
warmed to Buddy as he reaches out to
baby and then pits himself opposite bats
again with the whole hex song argument
then the very next scene we find out
that he is indeed a true criminal the
jowl comes to God sent Roman bacon that
is Wang Jia Li so this whole guns is pig
product speech is exactly as over
unpretentious as I'd expect from the guy
who wrote Rainbow Connection for the
Muppets movie I'm just curious how he
thinks Kermit will feel about him using
Miss Piggy in his analogy okay so the
opening seemed amazing the dance number
long take is amazing but as far as
timing and essentially playing music
with gun fire goes this shootout takes
the freaking cake go back and watch this
scene again not one gunshot is out of
time even the volume and duration of
shots are musically appropriate as Paul
Williams says fantasy also helping your
girlfriend out of a jam at least it
better be what he's doing since she was
already firing
just too much too good
whoo-hoo you know I'm gonna list off a
bunch of awesome details in the
conclusion but some are just too good to
not bring up now we actually see baby
grab a crayon and napkin to leave this
note and then is bent over writing it
good stuff
maybe you disappeared into a world
consistent of three things money sex
drugs connection that's what counting
win saving your new almost girlfriend
bananas I did not hear the word bananas
tonight maybe you just had something
clogging your ears watch play us
something baby one of those situations
where you actually feel at ease because
we know he does actually make mixes then
doc picks the wrong tape
I don't screw over the cops I screw on
the road now I'm not slow I'm fast and
it's actually refreshing to see baby
finally stand up for himself and the
only way he knows how
repeating everyone's lines back to them
but it goes a long way in making his
final decision to move in the next scene
seem right in line with where his head's
at he moved up and a total expectations
of version the news report was setting
up slippery roads and construction
foreshadowing what's going to be a
tricky escape by car and then picking
the guy you assume will be the main
villain is out and he had to be baby
knows he was itching to kill him and
Debbie so he had to go and one more
awesome time to flee this time on foot
perfectly safe with focuses hocus pocus
and another amazingly used song having
baby take a break to hide during the
calmer yodeling section and then take
off again once the electric guitar rips
back in I know it's not new to use music
to set the pace but right did it in
reverse order by picking already written
songs before filming the scene and if
you think about it skill on the road is
about thinking ahead and click reflexes
so I believe we'd be good on foot as
well this this is why people love at
your right that's a practical camera
movement there were a million easy ways
to film that shot but no he had the
camera operator back out of a van to
make this awesome aesthetic deaf guy
jokes never never gonna give you up has
taken on a whole new meaning
something I brought up in Scott Pilgrim
is how Edgar rarely uses the same shot
twice it's something you'll notice a
baby driver as well
you'll also notice in this scene
especially how the camera pushes in on
every actor bringing them all closer to
our perspective and ramping the tension
we're doing just fine in that right
there be nice quick thinking and
defending the woman you love is as good
a reason as any to start using guns if
you show me where you good shot
yes how many cameramen died in the
making of this film okay go get your
tape I think something to remember here
is that while guest doc does threaten
Deborah earlier waitress girlfriend
she's cute let's keep it that way
as far as he was concerned that was just
a fling baby wasn't being himself he had
taken her to the fatties just to impress
her
now that doc sees that she's really with
him after everything that's happened I
get the feeling that this hits home for
him I was in love once
maybe his true love left him because of
his life of crime and he clearly feels
protective over baby just because he
said can break your legs and tell
everyone he alone doesn't mean he ever
had any intention of actually doing that
he needed baby and threats were the
easiest way to keep him around
darling wasn't lying
buddy is relentless and he's seeing red
you haven't seen we is always a win yep
[Music]
[Applause]
and maybe was he not wrong about
Brighton Rock being a killer driving
song and I really wouldn't have pegged
the madman is a great choice for a final
boss but hot dang does he deliver seen
this coming buddy she took something
away from me that I love you know I got
to do the same
first of all buddy that's already two
things but do anyone elses ears
immediately start ringing after that
self-sacrifice a realistic ending to
baby story he may be a decent guy but
they're still consequences to your
actions and this was the only way to
make sure Debra wasn't implicated
pressure even harder that is the voice
of Walter Hill the director of the
driver can't get used to the fact that
your real name I kind of like that he
was sort of protecting her from the
beginning with some plausible
deniability she never even knew his real
name that's true love and you finally
get that rainbow after earning it
through the rain everybody wants
happiness nobody wants pain but you
can't have a rainbow without a little
rain although I will say that I
personally think this very well could be
in baby's head I'm not saying she won't
be there waiting for him in his 50s
fantasy after five years but everything
we know about baby leads me to believe
this is a dream for starters he had a
very similar fantasy and he lives
through media music TV and movies so
just sort of fits
[Music]
but who's gonna complain about this
happy ending with Simon and Garfunkel's
song giving us a literal roll credits
whoa these credits are only like three
minutes long and pretty well spaced out
of that testing it to a practical film I
just want to get this out of the way
quickly I can be honest and say that
Kevin Spacey was on my always a win list
he has always been one of my favorite
actors as much as I can separate actor's
talents from their personal lives there
is a line that being said I won't skip
movies that contain people on this
ever-growing list because it would be a
disservice to everyone else involved
Plus this is probably his last
appearance anyway I'll just have to see
how things go uncovering past movies
based on the box office returned a baby
driver I must have a few people watching
this video right now that this was is
your first and only Edgar Wright film
and to that I say if you enjoyed this
movie go watch the Cornetto trilogy
which is Shaun of the Dead Hot Fuzz and
the World's End also watch Scott Pilgrim
vs. the world each of the things that
you enjoyed in this film are
individually amplified in all of his
other films the music the long tanks the
poignant jump cuts that sharp
transitions the witty dialogue it's all
in there one of the highest scores
videos on my channel is Scott Pilgrim so
that should tell you what I think about
I do right then after watching all those
movies see his next film in theaters
he's a director that has never
disappointed me and of the handful of
directors who deserve our consistent
theatre money he's right near the top of
that list and if you watch this video
without seeing baby driver first go
watch it this video does not and cannot
do it's majesty justice Edgar Wright has
been called a style over substance
director and to that I say what you got
a good style I don't think anyone would
necessarily level that complaint at baby
driver with its tight narrative in
structure strong characters and every
loose end tied up nonetheless I feel the
need to defend it baby driver in no way
lacks substance yet Edgar Wright was
still able to stylize every single
moment some of the most satisfying ways
you know how I feel about musicals
slowly coming around but if there was
ever a musical I could get behind it's
an action movie choreographed to music
spanning the last five decades I went to
this movie pretty blind and based on
what I've heard I'd gir say I don't
think he wants it to be classified as a
musical probably for fear of turning
people like me off and there's minimal
original music but the way every song is
incorporated into the film is as musical
ask as it gets and the music in the film
is just plain amazing it's so
uncompromising Lee diegetic that when a
song runs out baby rewinds his iPod in
order to score the rest of the chase
if the crew stalls a little bit
and messes up his flow he asked them to
wait so we can restart the song
thematically music is the one connection
baby has to his mother in the same way
he would drown out his parents fighting
an abusive father he now drowns out the
reality of the ramifications of the
crash and the memory of his mother's
death and in a history repeats itself
kind of way he chooses to end his
abusive relationship with Bath the same
way his mother ended hers then his final
moments in the car with her song easy
play almost ironically as you consider
what baby's life has been and everything
has led to this moment but it's not
melancholy it is easy for him to choose
to ever over himself one of the few
things I didn't touch on outside the
obvious is the color coding of the
characters bats is obviously always red
red red
buddy is blue blue blue and darling is
pink violet I talked about baby's jacket
being caught between his two worlds and
his glasses progressively get lighter
until he's actually missing a lens by
the end showing how he's finally not
blinding himself to the crime and taking
some responsibility then Deborah and
baby's mom wear yellow and have light
hair the bans on the money are yellow
she's lit with the yellow light at the
diner yellow signifies moving forward
and leaving his life of crime behind you
know I got to talk about attention to
detail I know I'm not an easter egg
Channel but when it comes to Edgar
Wright they're woven into the film so
beautifully each is its own win and the
reason the detail lists are always so
long in Edgar Wright's films is because
of how detail-oriented he is and how
often awesome details repeat transitions
less of them than in other films still
epic yet understated and smooth like
this little eyeline transition
or high surf you realized the reason
baby has all those different iPods is
because he's been boosting cars since he
was a kid and stealing people's hi pods
the one he got as a gift got smashed in
the crash or how his undershirt slowly
darkens as he slips to the dark side of
crime or how often someone predicts the
sound with the point of a finger timing
with music is just integrated into
everything little timing cues mixing or
how often lyrics perfectly describe
what's happening in the film the lyrics
on the street the tinnitus ringing the
postcard foreshadowing where Doc
probably got his name the fact that baby
pulls up to Gmail you can see no evil at
the armored truck heist so many little
touches like of course Jamie left his
shotgun behind he's the only one without
a strap it goes on and on and the final
detail is something that took me
multiple watches to figure out I knew
that every cutting this TV watching
scene was important and I'm finally
realizing that the bull was
foreshadowing baby's final battle with
buddy getting off their horses out of
their cars and battling on foot
constantly tricking a bloodied buddy
like you do with the red cape and I'm
sure there are more little details that
I missed this is one of those films
where the camera operators boom
operators and grips all need to be
praised because they're responsible for
so much of what we see in how its
presented to our eyes and ears and then
at the heart of all of it is this sweet
and simple love story Ansel and Lily
have such great chemistry in place so
well off each other it's also a story of
taking responsibility and finding
redemption in doing so and ultimately
baby is just a likable kid someone we
can really relate to
although baby makes his mixtapes old
school analog the way Ice old fogies
used to do it really just a crazy
labor-intensive way especially when he
basically uses MIDI recordings anyway no
real instruments it would be like
opening up notepad and starting to code
a website from scratch that's dumb
don't do that that's why we have
Squarespace yeah you like that Segway
don't you but seriously take it from
someone who has opened up notepad and
started writing HTML and CSS from
scratch there is absolutely no need to
do that anymore Squarespace has awesome
customizable templates to help you get
started making your own website the idea
of making a site
daunting I know I put it off for way too
long myself but I've gone through the
gamut of ways to build sites and
Squarespace is by far the easiest and
most user-friendly way to do it I'm in
the middle of building a new site for
cinema winds right now and I'm kicking
myself for not doing this two years ago
I could not be more pleased wanna sell
stuff
Squarespace will get you making money
faster than you can come up with new
product ideas nothing to install no
patches or upgrades want to start a blog
about how much you love my channel you
can have a professional looking site by
the end of the day and my undying
affection for all eternity
Squarespace will help you create your
own save life wins so head on over to
Squarespace comm for your free trial and
when you're ready to launch go to
Squarespace com backslash cinema wins
and use offer code cinema wins to save
10% on your first purchase here is Eddie
no-nose formerly any of the knows that's
a no knows no no page one an insider
with a nasal problem the nose bag is
empty
someone at the Depot as a nasal problem
[Music]
you